Doom(4) for Doom / D4D
Frequently Asked Questions

Q. What is this?
A. "Doom(4) for Doom" (D4D) is a gameplay mod that brings the Doom 2016 weapons into the classic Doom maps via GZDoom. It also brings some similar monsters minus the dynamic AI and mobility.

Q. What to expect?
A. The mod tries to bring the weapons as accurately as possible in looks, behavior and timings. However, we also took some liberties regarding some behaviors and balance. For example, the "Double Trouble" Super Shotgun, when ported directly became extremely overpowered, so we reworked it completely. Another instance is the "Gatling Rotator" mod for the Chaingun, which fires explosive rounds now. 

Q. Does it include every single weapon in Doom4 including the multiplayer weapons?
A. Not every single one of them. All the single player weapons are there, and most of the multiplayer ones. Not the latest "the Reaper" one, since that's just too new.

Q. Do the single player weapons have all the mods and upgrades?
A. Mods: yes. Upgrades: no.
   In D4D all moddable weapons have their respective mods, but once acquired, they don't have "upgrades". All mods are in a fixed upgrade state compared to Doom4. When you get "Micro Missiles" for the HAR, they will be "Bottomless" already. Another example, the "Lock On" Rocket Launcher mod, when acquired, will not have the multiple targets upgrade, instead, it stays the way it is when picked. 
   Some weapons, like Super Shotgun, or the MP weapons, do have a few upgrades you can buy to enhance, since they don't have mods.

Q. Can I run it with Brutal Doom?
A. No. "Brutal Doom" and "Doom(4) for Doom" are both gameplay mods that cannot be stacked on top of each other. Same goes for any pair of gameplay mods.

Q. Can I run it with enhancement packs (high res textures, custom decorations, terrain packs)?
A. Most cases: yes. If the pack in question doesn't alter gameplay or alter monster looks/behaviour, it should run fine along D4D. However, if the pack defines its custom monsters to add extra gore, effects, etc, it's very likely that it will end up messing up D4D.

Q. Can I run this in Zandronum and/or multiplayer?
A. This mod is specifically designed for GZDoom since it uses really new features of the engine. If Zandronum catches with the GZDoom development, it could be playable in single player. Multiplayer is not currently supported and will probably glitch out if attempted.

Q. Does this mod have "ledge grabbing" and "glory kills"?
A. Yes.

Q. What about double jump?
A. It's there, but it's completely optional and can be turned on/off at any moment.

Q. Are the custom monsters a separate addon?
A. No. They are part of the core D4D. However, you can select the option to play with classic Doom(2) monsters instead of D4D's. The classic monsters have zero changes regarding behavior/damage/balance compared to the originals. They do, however, have slightly updated visual effects. Keep in mind that the classic Doom monsters tend to be easier to deal with than their D4D counterparts. 

Q. Are the skill levels untouched?
A. No. D4D has new skill levels. In general, it makes the game harder, and Ultra Violence remains ultraviolence despite being higher up in the list of skills. The skills below that one are way harder and are not recommended for players that don't like challenges. Keep in mind, however, that you can select easier skills, or, as mentioned above, use the classic Doom monsters to play a difficulty combination that better fits your style.

Q. Do weapons have reload?
A. No. They didn't have reload in Doom4. They don't here.

Q. Will you add maps?
A. I can't map myself. But if anyone wants to give this a go, he/she will be welcome aboard!




